what's up everybody my name is Brendan
huffard I'm feeling a little bro e here
in the tank top in the sunglasses today
but welcome back to 100 days of SEO
today we're talking about something that
I am staking my whole career on search
intent in this video talk about what
search intent is how to do it right
most people are telling you how to do it
wrong and why you should stake your
career your website and your business on
it too let's do it
what's up everybody Brendon hovered here
we are in my computer in the next few
minutes you're going to learn why I
think all the current models for search
intent really don't help anybody why I
think most content based on those models
can't rank and finally how to create
content that ranks gets clicked and then
converts that's what we want we want
something that drives business not just
keywords not just traffic now if you
stay until the end I got something super
special for you I do this in almost all
of my videos now watch until the end of
the video I'm gonna make a pretty
special offer to help you for free with
your website now shout out to all my
subscribers hear me say this every
single freaking video but just in case
you're new here I'm Brendon Hufford
that's me looking really cool not not
really sweet apple watch but i'm brian
hovering the founder of SEO for the rest
of us in 100 days of SEO most of the SEO
director at click studios where we help
venture-backed startups global sports
brands local Chicago businesses I'm also
a former teacher I'm pretty regular dude
and the data three shout out to all the
dads out there and today we're gonna
review something really quickly I want
to talk about topical research I just
put out a video on topical research but
in that video one of the things I said
was is that the skills of SEO and
copywriters are starting to overlap more
and more and I'm certain to get so many
great ideas and just great results for
clients and even on my own projects by
employing things that I'm learning from
my friends who are copywriters
the only one cursed with knowledge
because in that video about topical
research I said the genius move really
is to match search intent shout out if
you got the Cruel Intentions joke so I
want to review a bit of content that's
become out around search intent now
here's one from Josh Hardwick I've had
Josh on the hundred days of SEO project
think the world of Josh if you look at
this article it's focusing on this four
types of search intent this
informational navigational etc and
honestly I think that that way of
looking at search intent is wrong I
don't agree with it here's another one
from sue John Patel oh look what do you
notice again here's the same type of
search intent matrix wrong here's
another one going back for you know a
little bit earlier in 2019 from Kayne
Jameson yeah actually I actually like
this one it's pretty good and I'll
explain explain why here in a second but
here's one from 2018 from Yoast what do
we notice again the four types of search
intent wrong still wrong going back to
here's one from Nick Eubanks he wrote
this for stat you know this is when it
says Nick is the VP of digital strategy
at WL snook and associates like this is
so old this is seven years old at the
time that I'm putting out this video and
he talked about the same thing look at
Argus 31st 2012 we're still talking
about this and if we go all the way back
to 2007 look at this Rand Fishkin in
2007 was talking about navigational
searches informational searches we're
still using the same model from 12 years
ago you're telling me search intent has
not changed in 12 years no people are
just writing about it in the same way we
were just accepting it is the same Canon
in like look do you believe anything
else from 2007 is still awesome do you
think leave Britney alone and Chocolate
Rain are still awesome at Chocolate Rain
is still awesome that's so great but
like I just want to put it in
perspective like what else was popular
in 2007 now the reason I like Cain's
article is a competing King kind of
breaks it down a little bit more than a
trans actual branded visual research
answer etc but again the problem is I
don't think these are really intense
this is almost like a search results
predictor these aren't always the intent
of what people actually want and here's
the
problem is that it doesn't translate
into what to actually create for them if
people are researching or they want an
answer I want to break those out and go
a little bit deeper on creating things
that are gonna get click keep people on
the site and then get conversions
remember watch all the way to the end
I'm gonna make sure I'm gonna make a
pretty cool offer to help you here in
the comments of this YouTube video so
you're asking yourself WTF rent and what
do I write how do I you're telling me
about search intent how do I actually
match that intent now here's some really
interesting stuff from John Henry shirt
that really aligns I think John Henry is
one of the smartest people in SEO really
aligns with what I'm talking about here
John Henry says everyone's talking about
user intent in relation to content and
keywords but nobody's talking about
context context generally in relation to
the purchase journey is just as
important lack of context is why I think
it's hard to outsource authoritative an
authentic content or customer product
focused content creation like you can't
just have somebody else you can't
outsource your products content to
because they don't know about it they
don't have the context they don't have
the point of view they don't understand
the nuance and what's funny as John said
is nobody writing about this and I said
I I feel like I'm the only one that's
talking about this now here's here's
where I got it from I reading
breakthrough advertising by Eugene
Schwartz and all my copywriters right
now are like yeah bro duh we've known
about this forever it's a super old book
this Titans marketing you don't you
don't have to buy it for $400 it's
actually a low low price of 125 and
people like oh my god why would I spend
$125 on a book how much was the last
online course that you bought like 300
bucks this book is way better than any
online course you should absolutely buy
it but in here shorts breaks down a
really interesting funnel and something
that I feel like really maps to search
intent and awareness so here's what that
looks like if we imagine like a funnel
it's not really a funnel but if we look
at this as like more generalized
keywords and kind of search intent at
the top down to more specific here's how
short sleeves this out and here's how I
think you should lay it out for your
content so at the top is somebody who is
problem aware right with the problem or
level they know the problems and pains
they have they're googling those
problems and those pains they need to
know a solution like your
exists right and to sell them now here's
here's a confusing thing I actually had
somebody tell me that they didn't follow
some of my advice because they're like
my page doesn't have anything to sell
when I say to sell them this is written
by Eugene Schwartz somebody who's like a
conversion copywriter they actually do
want to sell I don't want to sell I just
want them to get them to take action
taking action might mean reading another
article at this level opting in for a
lead magnet joining a newsletter buying
a low to your product etc maybe joining
a Facebook group or a slack group so at
this level at the problem where level to
sell them meaning to get them to take
action you just have to empathize you
have to show you get their pain the
problem we're level would be like
somebody googling back pain have a
little sip of coffee here that's
delicious
you have to show them you get their pain
so they're they're googling back pain we
just want to empathize with them about
how much it hurts and how debilitating
it is now frustrating and there's all
these different solutions and once
you've empathize with them enough then
you can show a solution like yours
exists let's say you have a website
about yoga and you have a really cool
article about yoga for back pain we want
to push them to that article that's the
call to action at the end of a problem
aware too often people try to jam their
product in there and they're their
course and their solution they don't
give a crap about a solution and
convincing them we just want them to
understand that our solution exists and
then maybe send them somewhere to learn
more about that now the next article the
article we're probably going to send
them to is now their solution where they
aware huh
this says yoga could be one option for
my back pain so they know that that
solution exists and what they need to
know is how the solution solves their
pain so in this level of awareness they
need to know exactly how like what are
the mechanisms of doing yoga maybe some
examples of people who have solved their
back pain with yoga pull your belly
button then to take weight off your leg
like that's somehow physically possible
how that solution solves their pain or
for example if they're trying to
increase their revenue and you have a
company that does email marketing maybe
showing how better email marketing would
solve their pain of like a downturn in
revenue this is where they need to know
just how it solves their pain right not
specific we're not pushing them because
the to sell
them here we just show them how our
solution works just show them how it
works it's not convincing them this is
not a sales pitch because where we want
to push them now that their product
aware so at the top it was like I know I
have problems then the next level deeper
I know there's some kind of solutions
and they're googling for these solutions
now at the product aware level they know
your solution solves their pain they
know yoga could help their back pain
what they need to know is if my specific
solution now here's where we start
getting a little bit more sales e they
need to know if my solution is best for
them if we were to you know make up a
search term here at the product or we're
level this is people googling convertkit
versus MailChimp this is people googling
yoga versus stretching for back pain
right they need to know if your solution
if your course if your coaching if your
whatever you offer if your software is
the best for them and to sell them you
have to prove you're the best option you
have to prove and this is where we start
getting into really good case studies
testimonials you want to go heavy on the
proof here and proving you're the best
option now at the deepest level these
are people who are the most aware of
what you do if they already know what's
the best for them they know they're
convinced they're convinced that this is
my solution and what they're googling is
stuff they just want to know the deal
this is people googling convertkit
pricing they know that convertkit is a
good solution they're just at that buy
that final buying decision they want to
know the nitty-gritty details of
something and they just want to see the
deal so you got to show it to them at
this level now by creating your content
and mapping you have to reverse-engineer
the easiest way to do this is just to
Google something and look at what the
results are right look at what's already
ranking and consider what are they
really looking for when they're googling
we all look at keywords we do keyword
research but the problem is it's so
shallow right like John Henry said it
doesn't have the context necessary to
actually create content that's going to
convert that's going to actually build
your business this is how you create
content that maps to search intent that
will rank will get clicked and then will
keep people there and get the conversion
whatever that level of conversion is
even if it's at problem aware getting
them to read another article salut
you know we're pushing them to a product
page etc etc I hope this has been super
helpful for you me and Anne Thanos here
we want to make an offer to you share
your site in the comments below I hope
the first 10 people with how you can
leverage search intent for more
trafficking conversions I want to
actually get in the comments I want to
show you I know what I'm talking about
number one but I also want to genuinely
help people I want you to see the power
of search intent and what I'm sharing
here so leave that in the comments below
I've been Brendon Hufford don't forget
to work hard be nice people and don't
get too lost trying to create something
that matters
[Music]